800 million that's how many people are
suffering from diabetes the world over
million this is according to a
groundbreaking study it says that
diabetes cases have doubled over the
past three decades but the trends differ
across Nations more than half of these
cases are concentrated in just four
countries India China the US and
Pakistan in that
order so why are some Nations worse hit
than others why is Diabetes On The Rise
and what can be done about it here's a
report diabetes is underestimated
misunderstood and poorly treated so it
remains one of the most common medical
problems the world over it already
affects 800 million people globally and
it is on the
rise the prevalence of diabetes has
doubled over the past 30 years and this
is concerning because contrary to what
many people believe diabetes is not a
simple disease it's not just about
abnormal blood sugar control caused by a
lack of insulin diabetes is a chronic
and Progressive disorder and it has
devastating
consequences it can injure critical
bodily systems it can damage the heart
kidneys eyes and
nerves so this one disease be it type 1
or type 2 diabetes can cause a number of
other health issues like heart ATT
attack stroke kidney failure blindness
and amputations these are all potential
risks but diabetes is not equal for all
more than half of global diabetes cases
are concentrated in just four
countries India leads the pack with more
than a quarter of the cases 212 million
followed by China with 148 million than
the United States with 42 million this
is the only only High income Nation with
so many diabetes cases then comes
Pakistan with 36 million
cases out of all the cases more than 95%
of people with diabetes have type 2
diabetes unlike type 1 type 2 diabetes
can be prevented it's mainly caused by
being overweight eating unhealthily and
not exercising
enough so if much of diabetes is
preventable why is it on the rise well
there are a number of reasons first
growing levels of obesity nearly 1
billion adults and 159 million children
are obes the world over this is fueling
a diabetes epidemic secondly a healthy
lifestyle is not always affordable
diabetes has witnessed the largest
increase in low and middle- inome
countries where unhealthy food is the
cheap and convenient Choice thirdly more
than half of diabetes cases go untreated
and many people in lower incum naations
don't get the medication they need so
what can be done about it improving
medical access will help curb the
disease it will make both prevention and
diagnosis easier reducing the cost of
diabetes drugs will help
too in addition countries need more
action to reduce obesity like greater
availability of healthy food and
increased taxes on junk food diabetes
needs policy intervention the world over
if not this silent killer will continue
to ruin millions of lives